Beata waiting is a fundamental risk
management technique that every trader
should be aware of if you aren't using
beta weighting or don't even know what
beta weighting is don't worry in this
video you will learn everything you need
to know about bids are waiting to
understand beta weighting it is
important to first understand what beta
is beta is a measure of volatility risk
relative to some benchmark more often
than not this benchmark is SP y which is
an ETF that tracks the S&P 500 index so
for the rest of this video we will just
be using spy as this benchmark but note
that you could change this and use some
other security if you wanted to here's a
table that explains what different beta
values mean let's look at a specific
example to clarify what beta is if stock
XYZ has a beta of 0.5 it is 50% less
volatile than spy this means that in
theory if spy moves up by one dollar XYZ
should move up by 0.5 dollars the same
goes for a down move the beta of over 1
means that XYZ is more responsive than
the market and a beta of minus 1 means
that XYZ has the same degree of
volatility but in the other direction so
for every $1 move up in sp y XYZ moves
down by one dollar and vice-versa note
that in reality this correlation is
never this perfect but the more
correlated to securities are the more
reliable that beta values become with
beads out of the way there's one more
Greek that we need to cover to
understand beta wedding this week is
Delta Delta is most commonly used among
options traders to measure directional
risk let's quickly go through some
examples to clarify what Delta is for
this we will use X Y Z as the underlying
asset a position of 1
share in XYZ will have a delta of 1 this
means that for every $1 up move in XYZ
this position will gain $1 furthermore
for every $1 decline in XYZ the position
will lose $1 a long put position in XYZ
could have a delta of -15 which means
that it gains $15 for every $1 drop in
XYZ on the flip side this position would
lose $15 for $1 increase in X Y Z's
price last but not least an iron Condor
which is an option trading strategy as a
delta of 0 this means it's not directly
affected by price changes in XYZ note
that Delta usually is not constant
this means that Y the underlying assets
price changes so will the data tell of
your position if you have more than one
position on a security you can simply
add up all the deltas of your positions
to get your net Delta the result
represents your overall directional
exposure to that security this can be a
great way to evaluate your directional
risk it would be great if you could do
this for your entire portfolio the
problem with this is that by simply
adding up the data's of different
positions you don't account for
differences in volatility let me give
you a specific example a 100 share
position in s py as a delta of 100 but a
100 share position in Tesla also has a
delta of 100 even though Tesla clearly
is much more volatile than spy which
makes the Tesla position much riskier
than the spy position that's why you
can't really use Delta by itself to
compare the directional risk of
different positions otherwise buying 100
shares of s py would be just as risky as
buying 100 shares of Tesla to solve this
problem we must weigh each data so that
it accounts for the volatility of its
underlying asset
is where beta comes into play so what
does beat are waiting instead of adding
up all the deltas of your positions we
first beat away the deltas and then add
them up to beat away to Delta we simply
multiply it by the underlings beta value
and by the underlines price divided by
the benchmark price typically the
benchmark is by doing this for all your
Delta values and then adding them all up
will give you beta way to Delta value
for your entire portfolio but what does
this actually tell you the beads have
weighted Delta of your portfolio tells
you your total directional exposure to
the overall market in other words it
states how your entire portfolio's P&L
is affected by price changes in the
market for $1 move in spy the P&L of all
your positions should change by about
the amount of this Delta even though the
beta weights Delta on its own is useful
it only gives you a very limited and
static outlook into your portfolio's
risk profile together with prices the
deltas of your positions also change to
account for these changing deltas
it is possible to create a risk graph
for your entire portfolio this graph
could for instance look something like
this just like a normal pay off diagram
the y-axis represents the P&L of the
position and the x-axis describes the
price of the underlying security here
the underlying security is the benchmark
index or SP y the orange line represents
the beta weighted editor of your
portfolio and the blue line represents
its P&L as you can see this portfolio
profits most if the market either stays
where it is right now or moves up and
beyond 120 this portfolio is very much
exposed to big price drops in the market
in addition to evaluating your risk
profile beat awaiting also allows you to
calculate an expected daily change for
your portfolio's P&L
to calculate this expected move we must
first calculate the expected daily price
move so let's do this for spy at the
time of creating this video spy was
trading at $250 furthermore it had an
implied volatility of about 50% to
calculate the daily expected move of spy
we simply have to multiply spies IV by
its price and by the square root of 1
over 2 at 65 the result of this is close
to $8 which means that spies price is
expected to move to between 242 and $252
one day from now now we simply have to
multiply these eight dollars by the net
beta wait delta of our portfolio if our
net delta is 20 the result of this will
be $160 this means that our portfolios
P&L is expected to change by somewhere
between plus and minus $160 in a day if
we divide this figure by our total
account capital we get the expected
daily change in terms of a percentage
points of our portfolio note that these
calculations assume two hundred sixty
five trading days in a year a constant
Delta and a normal distribution of stock
returns these aren't the most realistic
assumptions nevertheless this is a great
way to get a rough estimate for your
daily portfolio's P&L fluctuations I
highly recommend checking out my video
on implied volatility to learn more
about the expected move and Ivy let's
now quickly sum up why beats are waiting
is so helpful first of all be there
waiting as comparability it normalizes
all of your positions deltas to one unit
this allows you to do a true apples to
apples comparison without beat awaiting
your Delta's you can't reliably compare
the directional exposure of different
positions in addition to that beta
weighting allows you to create a payoff
profile for your entire portfolio
this is a great way to evaluate and
manage your directional risk last but
not least beta weighting allows you to
estimate the expected daily price
fluctuations of your overall portfolio
next up let's take a look at how beta
weighting can help you manage your risk
firstly it is important to have an
overall directional assumption of the
overall market around which you can
build your portfolio in theory this can
be everything from very bearish to very
bullish it can however be hard to always
have a clear directional bias
furthermore being two directional can
expose it big risks therefore it can be
advantageous to stay delta-neutral but
what exactly does delta-neutral mean
adead her neutral position is one with
the Delta somewhere around zero such a
position is not significantly affected
by changes in the underlying price an
iron Condor would be an example of a
delta neutral option strategy industries
max profit if the price of the
underlying stays right where it is think
about it the vast majority of days Spy
does not change by more than one dollar
so why would you construct a highly
directional portfolio if you can just
stay neutral was slightly directional to
make this even clearer let's compare the
payoff diagram of a classic stock
portfolio to the payoff of a
delta-neutral one for this let's assume
both portfolios expire in 45 days which
of the following portfolios would you
rather have the first long Delta
portfolio clearly outperforms the latter
if the market has a huge rally but if
there's no huge rally or even a decline
the payoff profile of the delta-neutral
portfolio is certainly preferable
all in all a delta-neutral portfolio is
much more versatile and gives much more
room for error than a highly directional
one I hope these examples show you how
having an
portfolio can be advantageous with that
being said you obviously still can have
some directional skew to your payoff
profile in a bull market for instance it
can be favorable to be slightly bullish
just make sure to keep your directional
exposure in check as a rough guideline
you could try to keep your beat away to
Delta of all your positions below 0.5
percent of your total account capital so
if you have a $10,000 account try to
keep your beat away to Delta between
minus 50 and 50 to achieve this you will
have to balance our positive and
negative Delta positions to do this let
us now take a look at how beta weighting
should affect the process of opening and
managing trades before opening a new
position you should always first
evaluate its effect on your overall
portfolio
you should check if the position is a
good fit for your portfolio here are two
questions to consider before opening
closing or adjusting a position how does
it affect the risk profile of your
portfolio and does it add or reduce
directional risk if you're trying to
stay market neutral and your portfolio
currently has a beat awaited data of 200
you should try to add some negative beta
way to Delta positions to balance this
out when doing this make sure to keep
the profitable range of your portfolio
wide enough you don't want a neutral
portfolio with a $2 wide profit range
last but not least let's take a look at
beta weighting in tasty works for those
that don't know tasty works as the
broker that I used and I recommend for
this we must first navigate to the
positions tab inside the tasty works
desktop platform and in the header you
will be able to see the nest beta wet
data of your portfolio this is the beta
weighted directional exposure of your
entire portfolio to the market in the
positions tab you will be able to see
the beta way to Delta
each position this is marked in orange
right next to it you can see the normal
non beta weighted Delta of the position
this is marked in yellow generally if
the deltas beat a symbol in front of it
it is beta weighted and otherwise it's
not if your positions tab looks
different than this one note that you
can add or remove these displays in the
settings by default everything is beta
weighted to spy this however can easily
be changed by clicking on the Settings
icon here if you decide to change this
make sure to choose a broad security
that is correlated to as many of your
positions as possible speaking of
correlation you can see the 3-month
correlation between a security and spy
in the right-hand sidebar under the
security's overview tab note that this
is not the same as beta to see the beta
alpha security you will have to turn on
the beta display in the settings menu
taystee works also allows you to see the
payoff profile of your overall portfolio
as of right now this feature is only
available in the tasty works web
platform to view this graph navigate to
the portfolio tab inside the web-based
platform and standardly you will see the
PNL profile of your entire portfolio in
the top right corner you can also
deselect certain positions to view the
risk profile of a group of positions
furthermore here you can also view the
potential impact of a new position on
your portfolio before opening it to read
my full review of test works check out
the link in the description box below
beta waiting can be a great way to
assess your overall market risk
furthermore it allows you to better
compare the directional exposure of your
positions with that being said it is
still important to assess the risk of
individual positions separately don't
focus all of your risk management
efforts on beta weighting individual
positions still
individual care furthermore it is
important to use a highly correlated
security when beta weighting applying
beta waiting to uncorrelated positions
won't give you a realistic
representation of your risk in my
opinion it is best to use a broad market
ETF such as spy but if you're trading a
sector that's not represented by spy use
some major market ETF in that central
alternatively you could also break down
your portfolio into different sector
groups and beta weighed them separately
but if you don't want to make it too
complicated just use by - truly reap the
benefits of beta weighting it is
important that your broker supports this
feature one of my favourite brokers that
has better waiting is tasty works so
make sure to check out my detailed
review of tasty works in the description
box below with that being said I hope
you enjoyed this video and learn
something new if you did make sure to
smash that like button subscribe and
turn on the notification down thanks for
watching